README.md, before:

# Typescript in 50 Lessons

## 1-example

- Enter unknown, 42
- Excess property check, 46
- Declaration merging for interfaces, 54

## 2-example

- type import, 49
- From d.ts exported type, no module
- From d.ts exported type, with module

## 3-function

- order of arguments, shape
- optional parameter
- substitutability
- substituteable return type void

## 4-this-that

- Function declarations with this

## 5-taggedtemplateliterals

- Template as a function (TemplateStringsArray)

## 6-functionoverload

- implementation-following-overload-defs
- void as return's security gate
- overload function types(fails, see TODO)

## 7-generatorfunctions

## 8-unionintersectiontypes

- Value Types
- Index Access Types or Lookup Types
- Mapped Types

## 9-objectkeystypredicates

- key of
- type predicate

## 10-never-undefinednull

- never as a safeguard
- strictNullChecks
- helper neverError(message: string, token: never) for switch statements

## 11-tupletypes

- individual type arrays

## 12-generics

- Generic
- Generic with extends boundary
- Index Type
- extends keyof

## 13-genericmappedtypes

- Pick
- Record
- Readonly, including Deep, Freeze
- Split Object's Properties Into Available Unions -> `type Split<Obj> = { [P in keyof Obj]: Record<P, Obj[P]> }[keyof Obj]`
- How To Merge Specific With General

## 14-bindinggenerics

- Binding to Generics allows more versatility, especially for value types
- The intersection of two distinct value types always results in never

## 15-generictypedefaults

- generic default parameter
- caution against generic binding, because then infer is canceled out

## 16-ifthisthanthat

- Conditional Types
- Combining Function Overloads and Conditional Types
  - TODO But ? just fucks up
- Function Overloads Are Fine With Conditional Types

## 17-distributiveconditionals

- Never as a stop point in Conditional Types
- createMedium
  - TODO But ? just fucks up, Conditionals
- NonNullable and Low-Level Utilities
  - Promised
  - Flatten
  - isNonOptional

## 18-thinkingintypes

- union types for function overloads
- conditional types with infer
- variadic tuple types

## 25-conditionaltypesints

- dispatch with two split parameters
- function body, to narrow args ...
  - with isType by assertion over same type as the
    parameter type (see dispatch7)
  - with unifiying type and args as target type (
    somehow defeats the split parameters purpose) (see dispatch8)

## 26-tocamel

- Template literal types
- Key Remapping in Mapped Types

## 28-createnewinterferencesite

- With Classes
- With Currying

## 29-typesaferouter

- Apply create new inference site with a class
- An interface's key is a PropertyKey by string | number | symbol
- To narrow the type to an interface's key, one can either e.g. `Extract<keyof API, string>` or `keyof API & string`
- LensOver into type by `type LensOver<T, K> = T[K & keyof T]` for e.g. `API[Path]`

## 30-typedidentityfunction

- Type Point = [number, number] != [number, number]
- You have to use a function, just to make TS infer the correct type ("identity function")
- Unfortunately you can't have a function with one explicit generic parameter and one inferred parameter
- A Record prevents TS to detect an invalid object key

## 31-converttupletypesintounion

- `typeof foo[number]` gives union of `foo` tuple values

## 32-mergedefault

- `typeof foo` on an object is more ad-hoc flexible than typeing it explicitly

Get toys in, get them grouped by type out `function groupToys(toys: Toy[]): GroupedToys`

1. Union by literal type `Toy["kind"]`
2. a Grouped by kind of each member of a union `{ [Kind in Toy["kind"]]: Toy[] }`
3. b Grouped by kind of each member of a union with s postfixed Plus valued by according type of each member of the union `` { [Kind in Toy["kind"] as `${Kind}s`]: Extract<Group, { kind: Kind }>[] } ``

## 33-prefertypealiasesoverinterfaces

- types are final, interfaces are not
- types are therefore more type savvier

## 34-filteruser

- Get all object keys as list: `Object.keys(criteria) as (keyof User)[]`

# References

- Book's Home at https://typescript-book.com/

# TODO

- Write test (Jest with ts-test) for 5-TaggedTemplateLiterals, Template as a function
- In 6-functionoverload.ts Fix|Evaluate: Type 'void' is not assignable to type 'Promise<Result[]>'

Commit message:

chore: Finished 36-overrideintersectionpoftypes and 37-promisifyacallback

README.md, after:

# Typescript in 50 Lessons

## 1-example

- Enter unknown, 42
- Excess property check, 46
- Declaration merging for interfaces, 54

## 2-example

- type import, 49
- From d.ts exported type, no module
- From d.ts exported type, with module

## 3-function

- order of arguments, shape
- optional parameter
- substitutability
- substituteable return type void

## 4-this-that

- Function declarations with this

## 5-taggedtemplateliterals

- Template as a function (TemplateStringsArray)

## 6-functionoverload

- implementation-following-overload-defs
- void as return's security gate
- overload function types(fails, see TODO)

## 7-generatorfunctions

## 8-unionintersectiontypes

- Value Types
- Index Access Types or Lookup Types
- Mapped Types

## 9-objectkeystypredicates

- key of
- type predicate

## 10-never-undefinednull

- never as a safeguard
- strictNullChecks
- helper neverError(message: string, token: never) for switch statements

## 11-tupletypes

- individual type arrays

## 12-generics

- Generic
- Generic with extends boundary
- Index Type
- extends keyof

## 13-genericmappedtypes

- Pick
- Record
- Readonly, including Deep, Freeze
- Split Object's Properties Into Available Unions -> `type Split<Obj> = { [P in keyof Obj]: Record<P, Obj[P]> }[keyof Obj]`
- How To Merge Specific With General

## 14-bindinggenerics

- Binding to Generics allows more versatility, especially for value types
- The intersection of two distinct value types always results in never

## 15-generictypedefaults

- generic default parameter
- caution against generic binding, because then infer is canceled out

## 16-ifthisthanthat

- Conditional Types
- Combining Function Overloads and Conditional Types
  - TODO But ? just fucks up
- Function Overloads Are Fine With Conditional Types

## 17-distributiveconditionals

- Never as a stop point in Conditional Types
- createMedium
  - TODO But ? just fucks up, Conditionals
- NonNullable and Low-Level Utilities
  - Promised
  - Flatten
  - isNonOptional

## 18-thinkingintypes

- union types for function overloads
- conditional types with infer
- variadic tuple types

## 25-conditionaltypesints

- dispatch with two split parameters
- function body, to narrow args ...
  - with isType by assertion over same type as the
    parameter type (see dispatch7)
  - with unifiying type and args as target type (
    somehow defeats the split parameters purpose) (see dispatch8)

## 26-tocamel

- Template literal types
- Key Remapping in Mapped Types

## 28-createnewinterferencesite

- With Classes
- With Currying

## 29-typesaferouter

- Apply create new inference site with a class
- An interface's key is a PropertyKey by string | number | symbol
- To narrow the type to an interface's key, one can either e.g. `Extract<keyof API, string>` or `keyof API & string`
- LensOver into type by `type LensOver<T, K> = T[K & keyof T]` for e.g. `API[Path]`

## 30-typedidentityfunction

- Type Point = [number, number] != [number, number]
- You have to use a function, just to make TS infer the correct type ("identity function")
- Unfortunately you can't have a function with one explicit generic parameter and one inferred parameter
- A Record prevents TS to detect an invalid object key

## 31-converttupletypesintounion

- `typeof foo[number]` gives union of `foo` tuple values

## 32-mergedefault

- `typeof foo` on an object is more ad-hoc flexible than typeing it explicitly

Get toys in, get them grouped by type out `function groupToys(toys: Toy[]): GroupedToys`

1. Union by literal type `Toy["kind"]`
2. a Grouped by kind of each member of a union `{ [Kind in Toy["kind"]]: Toy[] }`
3. b Grouped by kind of each member of a union with s postfixed Plus valued by according type of each member of the union `` { [Kind in Toy["kind"] as `${Kind}s`]: Extract<Group, { kind: Kind }>[] } ``

## 33-prefertypealiasesoverinterfaces

- types are final, interfaces are not
- types are therefore more type savvier

## 34-filterusera

- Filter objects by the same object`s type props as criteria, one type in hierarchy
- Get all object keys as list: `Object.keys(criteria) as (keyof User)[]`

## 35-filteruserb

- Filter objects by the same object`s type props as criteria, all types in hierarchy
- Get all object keys as list: `const getObjectKeys = <T>(obj: T) => Object.keys(obj) as (keyof T)[]
- Overload methods with types in covariant function parameter positions

## 36-overrideintersectionpoftypes

- Make new type out of other interfaces and overridden prop
  - Any prop must be ommited from interfaces first before overridden

### 37-promisifyacallback

- A callback function is supplied as an argument to a higher-order function(hordfunc) that invokes (“calls back”) the callback function to perform an operation. What’s important is that the hordfunc takes the full responsibility of invoking the callback and supplying it with the right arguments.
  - A hordfunc is typically of signature `hordfunc: (callback: (hordfuncresult: TypeOfHordfuncResult) => void) => void`
  - The hordfunc is told via the callback, who's next to work on it's results (action chaining)
- Corolarry: You do not have to assign a type to a generic if compiler inference works
  - Inference site for function signature work (See also https://stackoverflow.com/a/59055819/3274229)
- Model the input and model the output separately first

# References

- Book's Home at https://typescript-book.com/

# TODO

- Write test (Jest with ts-test) for 5-TaggedTemplateLiterals, Template as a function
- In 6-functionoverload.ts Fix|Evaluate: Type 'void' is not assignable to type 'Promise<Result[]>'
